---
description: Act Two
dateModified: '2016-07-07T20:31:12.038Z'
datePublished: '2016-07-07T20:36:28.311Z'
title: ''
author: []
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-07-07-act-two.md
inFeed: true
hasPage: false
inNav: false
_type: MediaObject

---
**Act Two**

The cast lines up to sing _"Seasons of Love"_, before the plot resumes with Mark and Roger gathering to break back into their locked apartment with their friends, believing "It's gonna be a _Happy New Year_...". A "_Third Voicemail_" reveals that Mark's footage of the riot has earned him a job offering at a tabloid news company. The others continue their _Happy New Year_..." and finally break through the door just as Benny arrives, saying he wants to call a truce, revealing that Mimi, a former girlfriend of his, convinced him to change his mind. Mimi denies rekindling her relationship with Benny, but Roger is upset, and Mimi goes to her drug dealer for a fix.

Around Valentine's Day, Mark tells the audience that Roger and Mimi have been living together, but they are tentative with each other. It is also told that Maureen and Joanne are preparing another protest, and during rehearsal, Maureen cites Joanne's controlling behavior and Joanne cites Maureen's promiscuous mannerisms, and they break up dramatically coming up with the ultimatum _"Take Me or Leave Me"_. Time speeds on to spring _("Seasons of Love B")_, but Roger and Mimi's relationship is strained by her escalating heroin usage and Roger's lasting jealousy and suspicion of Benny. Each alone, Roger and Mimi sing of love and loneliness, telling each other how they feel _"Without You"_ as they watch Collins nurse Angel, whose health is declining from AIDS. Mark continues to receive calls offering a corporate job at a tabloid television show, as revealed by a "_Fourth Voicemail_". The couples have devolved into on-and-off relationships. A dance is performed representing all the couples' sex-lives _("Contact")_. At the climax of the number, the two former couples break up, and Angel suddenly dies. At the funeral, the friends briefly come together to share their memories with Collins being the last to reminisce _("I'll Cover You \[Reprise\]")_. On _"Halloween"_ Mark expresses his fear of being the only one left surviving when the rest of his friends die of AIDS, and he finally accepts the corporate job offer. Roger reveals that he is leaving for Santa Fe, which sparks an argument about commitment between him and Mimi, and between Maureen and Joanne. Collins arrives and admonishes the entire group for fighting on the day of Angel's funeral, causing Maureen and Joanne to reconcile, but not Mimi and Roger. Collins is forcibly removed from the church for being unable to pay for Angel's funeral. Benny shows compassion by paying, causing him and Collins to recuperate their old friendship. The group shares a sad moment, knowing that between deaths and leaving, their close-knit friendships will be breaking up. Everyone tells each other _"Goodbye Love"_.

Months later, both Mark and Roger are simultaneously reaching an artistic epiphany, as Roger finds his song in Mimi and Mark finds his film in Angel's memory. Roger returns to New York just in time for Christmas, and Mark quits his job to work on his own film once more. They both come to the conclusion "You are _What You Own_...". The characters' parents leave several messages on their phones _("Voicemail \#5")_, and on Christmas Eve, exactly one year having passed, Mark prepares to screen his now-completed film to his friends. Roger has written his song, but no one can find Mimi for him to play it to. Benny's wife, discovering Benny's relationship with Mimi, has pulled Benny out of the East Village; the power suddenly blows and Collins enters with handfuls of cash, revealing that he reprogrammed an ATM at a grocery store to provide money to anybody with the code (A-N-G-E-L). Maureen and Joanne abruptly enter carrying Mimi, who has been homeless and is now weak and close to death. She begins to fade, but not before telling Roger that she loves him _("Finale A")_. Roger tells her to hold on as he plays her the song he wrote for her, _"Your Eyes"_ which reveals the depths of his feelings for her. Mimi appears to die, but abruptly awakens, claiming to have been heading into a white light, except that a vision of Angel told her to go back. The remaining friends gather together in a final moment of shared happiness and resolve to enjoy whatever time they have left with each other, affirming that there is "no day but today" _("Finale B")_.