---
description: Act One
dateModified: '2016-07-07T20:33:14.346Z'
datePublished: '2016-07-07T20:34:37.250Z'
title: ''
author: []
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-07-07-act-one.md
inFeed: true
hasPage: false
inNav: false
_type: MediaObject

---
**Act One**

On Christmas Eve in 1989 in Manhattan's East Village, two roommates---Mark, a filmmaker, and Roger, a rock musician---struggle to stay warm and produce their art during Roger's _First Tune Up_. Their friend Collins, a gay anarchist professor, leaves a _First Voicemail_ and plans to surprise them at their apartment, but is mugged before entering. At the same time, Roger and Mark's former roommate Benny, who has since become their harsh new landlord, has reneged on an earlier agreement and now demands last year's rent, before shutting down their electrical power during Roger's _Second Tune Up_. However, Mark and Roger rebel and pledge "We're not gonna pay last year's _Rent_...". Meanwhile, a cross-dressing street drummer (currently out of drag) named Angel finds Collins wounded in an alley and tends to him, asking _"You Okay, Honey?"_. The two are immediately attracted to each other, and learn that they are both HIV positive. Roger also has HIV, as did his last girlfriend, who committed suicide. Mark goes looking for Collins _("Tune Up \#3")_, while Roger dreams of writing "_One Song Glory_, one song before I go...". An exotic dancer and neighbor, Mimi, walks in to flirt with Roger, who is hesitant to start a new relationship. She enters asking to _"Light My Candle..."_. Meanwhile, a _Second Voicemail_ reveals that Joanne, a lawyer, is the new girlfriend of Maureen, a protest artist who recently dumped Mark.

At last, the missing Collins enters the apartment, presenting Angel, who is now in full drag and shares the money she made and the amusing story of how she attained it, boasting that it's "_Today 4 U_, tomorrow for me...". Benny arrives, speaking of Maureen's upcoming protest against his plans to evict the homeless from a lot where he is hoping to build a cyber arts studio. Benny offers that, if they convince Maureen to cancel the protest, then they can officially remain rent-free tenants. However, the two rebuff Benny's offer and he leaves, telling them _"You'll See..."_. Mark must leave to fix Maureen's sound equipment for the protest, but he meets Joanne at the stage. They overcome their awkwardness by connecting over their shared distrust of Maureen's promiscuous behaviors. They imagine how this might look like in the form of the _"Tango: Maureen"_. Mark joins his friends to film their HIV _"Life Support"_ meeting, while Mimi attempts to "...go _Out Tonight_" and seduce Roger alone in the apartment, though he coldly tells her to "Come back _Another Day_...". After Mimi leaves, Roger reflects on his fear of dying from AIDS, while the life-support group echoes his thoughts. Everyone ends up asking "_Will I_lose my dignity?".

"_On the Street..._", Collins, Mark, and Angel protect a homeless woman from police harassment, but she chastises them. Collins talks about his dream of escaping New York City to "Open up a restaurant in _Santa Fe_...", and, soon, Collins and Angel confess their love for each other, proclaiming _"I'll Cover You..."_. Joanne hectically prepares for Maureen's show, telling everyone _"We're Okay"_, and Roger apologizes to Mimi, inviting her to come to the protest and the dinner afterwards. Police, vendors, and homeless people prepare for the protest, saying that "_Christmas Bells_ are ringing...", and Maureen begins her avant-garde, if not over the top, performance, _"Over the Moon"_, based on "Hey Diddle Diddle". At Life Café after the show, Benny criticizes the protest and the group's bohemian lifestyle. In response, Mark and all the café's bohemian patrons defiantly rise up to celebrate their _"La Vie Bohème"_ lifestyle. Mimi and Roger each discover that the other is HIV-positive and decide to move forward with their relationship, struggling to say _"I Should Tell You"_. Joanne explains that Mark and Roger's building has been padlocked and a riot has broken out, just before Roger and Mimi share their first kiss. Everyone proclaims to live "_Viva La Vie Bohème_".